<h1>Readable Labels and Programic IDs for Features in a Metabolite Atlas</h1>
<ul>
	<li>IDs should be flexible enough to permit capturing the quick thoughts about an oberservation</li>
	<li>IDs should be specific enough to permit the comparison of like-for-like metabolites across Atlases</li>
</ul>
Identification of metabolites in untargeted LC/MS and MS/MS experiments is analagous to describing the ingredients in a high-school lunch cafeteria. You might describe the dish as "Steak and Potatoes" and someone else might describe it as "grey-goo".  Both could be correct.  Perhaps "Steak" is an observation that a component of the dish has the characteristics of steak and perhaps its based on actual knowledge of the dish containing one or more components of a cow.  

In an LC/MS experiment, there are observations which can be assigned to a specific chemical entitiy with very high confidence. For these cases, an investigator might specify a precise chemical structure they believe to have detected.  There is no more accurate way to specify an observed metabolite than a complete structural description (as a SMILES or InChi string) that contains the charged form of the detected molecule.  These structures can be matched to chemical databases unambiguously and are the unique description of a compound.  In comparison, there are often times when only partial knowedge about the identity is known.  Difficulty often is due to isomers (chemicals with the same chemical formula but different structure). Many sugars exist with the forumula C6H12O6, but knowing if its glucose or galactose might require extensive investigation. Consequently, an investigator might choose to identify a feature resembling glucose as "A Hexose" to constrain the specification appropriately.  

What is needed is a label-xref service.  There are millions of known metabolite structures.  Tens of thousands of these are captured by biochemical databases.  Exact XREF with boolean logic to specifically show which chemical structures comprise a assertion is the only way to precisely capture the meaning of the assertion. 